Omega v1.0
(Conﬁdential Document)

Use Case
Omega is a proprietary protocol that is used to strengthen prison security and maintain them as
a Smart Penitentiary Facility .
To avoid problems such as possible prison breaks and rival gang member ﬁghts, we have ﬁxed
diﬀerent sensors including positioning devices, video cameras and perimeter monitors. If
something is detected by the sensor then the video cameras will turn to a given direction, and the
main gate will be closed.
All these devices work with Omega protocol, which is eﬃcient and can be used ﬂexibly across
devices. Each prisoner is closely monitored with video cameras, apart from a 10 minute
maintenance period during the day time. As this is critical period, we request the guards to move
out of the base and activate the laser systems (E1,E2 & E3). Any failure in laser systems will
trigger the alarms (A1, A2, A3 & A4) thereby alerting the guards, who will move to protect all
prison entrances.

Architecture

Omega is a RF protocol. This protocol can be used in devices that operate at 1.8-5.5V, with a
frequency band in the range of 433.92 MHz. We have used an in-house Omega prototype to
convert RF signals to message format and vice versa.

Alarm Packet Structure

Packet Type

Packet Identiﬁer

Suppress

0xF1

Alert

0xA0

Broadcast

0x03

Broadcast: In order to consume low power, all the alarms are in idle mode at regular intervals.
All sensors broadcast messages to nearby devices with an allowed 0.05 seconds delay.
Alert: If broadcast mode is disrupted, then the nearby receiver (which acts as master) sends a
signal to all alarms to put them into alert mode.
Suppress: This mode helps in silencing the alarms. This works by sending a suppress packet to
the respective alarm.

Laser Packet Structure

Packet Type

Packet Identiﬁer

Move left

0x91

Move right

0x53

Turn oﬀ

0xFF

Turn on

0xEE

To avoid packet replay and injection attacks we've implemented cyclic redundancy check
validation, referring to microchip solutions port for STM32 with initCRC( 0x1d0f). Invalid packets
get discarded at the transceiver end.

